United Nations Secretary General Antonio
gutieres has once again condemned the
Hamas attack on Israel he has also
criticized the high number of Civilian
casualties that the Israeli Army
offensive is causing in
Gaza there are violations by Hamas when
they have human uh Shields but uh when
one looks at the number of civilians
that were killed with the military
operations there is something that is
clearly wrong the highest number of
killing of children by any of the actors
in all the conflicts that we witness is
the maximum in the hundreds we have in a
few days in Gaza thousands and thousands
of children kills that was you Secretary
General Antonio Gutierrez speaking
earlier I'm joined Now by Mark Weller he
is a professor of international law at
the University of Cambridge he's also
served as a un mediation expert Mr
Weller it's good to have you with us
you are aware like many that numerous
NOS have accused Israel of committing
war crimes by attacking civilian areas
now Israel says it's hitting Hamas
military targets that it has warned
civilians and told them to go south to
avoid being hit and yet we know
civilians have been killed what does
international law say about
this international law demands that any
party to a conflict must apply what is
called the principle of distinct
you must always be able specifically to
Target the combatants of the other side
and keep safe as much as possible the
civilians what the UN Secretary General
uh has just said is that on the face of
it uh if Israel has lost let's say 30 or
40 of its service members in this
conflict and on the other hand 10,000
civilians have died that the balance uh
that should exist between protection of
civilians and Military gain seems to be
out of hand in this instance we know
that Israel has used the right to
selfdefense um to justify the attacks
that we're seeing many Western countries
have also supported this how far is the
right of self-defense
applicable the right of self-defense
applies it is clear that the attack of
the 7th of October launched by Hamas
entitles Israel to respond even through
the use of force but that use of force
must be targeted specifically at Hamas
and its Fighters at the threat of
further terrorism which Israel is
entitled to remove if necessary
forcibly the fact that Hamas itself uh
will have committed a grave war crime
through the atrocities of the 7th of
October does not mean that the civilians
in Palestine have lost their status as
people under the protection of
humanitarian law that means that Israel
must not undertake strikes against
targets uh where the civilian injury is
excessive in relation to the military
gain that this kind of attack brings and
that I think is the principle criticism
that in this case even if it is alleged
that uh there are uh Hamas operatives
hiding under buildings or someone
somewhere else uh that that doesn't
relieve Israel of the obligation still
to minimize damage to civilians even if
that means it will be more difficult for
their soldiers to engage the Hamas
Fighters but if it is true that Hamas is
embedding itself in areas that have that
are densely populated with civilians
then any attack is going to inevitably
result in civilian deaths
right most uh Advanced militaries and
this does certainly in include Israel uh
actually have targeters lawyers who sit
and consider whether any particular
attack is lawful and the balance in each
case has to be made if there even if
there is some sort of amas
infrastructure under a particular Target
uh we're not quite persuaded that that
is always the case when buildings are
targeted sometimes it looks like
retaliation but even if that is the case
that doesn't relieve Israel of the duty
of protection of civilians it can't just
say that these are human Shields they
are not willing human Shields who place
themselves in this danger there are
civilians who do not lose their
entitlement to protection or at least uh
Israel has to ensure that the damage to
civilians so-called incidental damage or
injury is not out of proportion to the
military gain that any particular
operation brings and that seems to be
something that becomes problematic as
this conflict continues and as the
actions of the military uh by on the
side of Israel do seem to be
disproportionately affecting
civilians and you know what you say
there you're you're speaking about
proportionality we know that the Geneva
conventions say that Warfare must be
guided by the principles of
proportionality can we speak of
proportionality with more than 10,500
Palestinian death if we are to believe
what the Gaza health authority is
saying yeah I think few people doubt
that there are extraordinary numbers of
Civilian deaths and that is why the UN
Secretary General has pointed to this
imbalance uh between the alleged
military benefit that Israel claims it
is pursuing in any particular attack and
the evidently disproportionate civilian
injuries that result and that is one of
the principal criticisms of Israel and I
think it's correct to be critical and
the other one is to deprive civilian
concentrations of that which is
necessary for the survival uh
depriving uh the civilians of food of
water of hospitals of energy uh cannot
really be justified Israel says well
otherwise Hamas might take over some of
those supplies but the answer to that is
that the icrc the UN or other agencies
could Safeguard and ensure that only
civilians benefit and um the present
practice of displacing a million people
into an area that itself is subject to
attack and then denying humanitarian
supplies to those civilians which you
have driven out uh that is also uh very
difficult to justify earlier I spoke to
hin kadori a Palestinian journalist in
Gaza City and I asked her to describe
the situation there right
now um I'm in the middle of I'm in the
center of the Gaza City right now it's
dark um all I hear is explosions I
really don't know where these explosions
are but I assume they are in the north
northern area of the C TR we're talking
about Baha jabalia and these areas I can
see like thunderstorm but this is not
Thunder this is like and explosion um uh
erupting um uh the situation today has
been
um catastrophic to be honest we have
been uh listening to a lot of appeals
from different citizens callings that
they have been injured in different
areas in the Cal strip and no one is is
is being able to to rescue them no one's
being able to go and help them uh we got
appeals from people in schools people uh
that have been uh like their houses have
been bombed people were under the rubble
no civil defense no ambulances were able
to to rescue them or to transort them
transort them the hospital um it's dark
right now it's night and everyone in the
Gaza there are 2.3 million power in the
Gaza right now uh hating the fact that
it's night right now and it's dark and
there's a lot of explosions happening
right now
all right for more now we want to cross
over to journalist Sami suul in
Jerusalem Sami what are you hearing from
the Israel Defense Forces about their
operation in and around Gaza
City yeah well I can tell you that the
Israeli military is very content uh with
the progress of this campaign and
they're talking about very good
cooperation between the ground forces
and the Air Force and the artillery and
at the same time you have both regular
Army and reserve duty soldiers in big
numbers and and they're saying that
things are coming along smoothly true
that they face resistance uh no one is
has been surrendering they haven't seen
any Hamas Fighters surrendering but they
say that in all the different battles
that they've had so far they have been
winning and they're now exposing also
tunnels and the IDF spokesperson has
exposed um recordings and evidence so
they say that Hamas has is using
ambulances and different facilities for
their Fighters you say that the Israeli
military is content with where they are
right now in in Gaza what about the
Israeli public Sami are are they
satisfied with the way that their
government is handling this
conflict I think when it comes to the to
the Gaza Strip uh the the public here in
Israel is definitely supportive of an
aggressive uh approach and uh even Benny
gun who kind of like was in the
opposition and is now in the war cabinet
H he's same line together with Netanyahu
and this is kind of like the the bulk
the majority of the Israeli public uh
and what they want to see is the kind of
destruction of Hamas they're talking
about elim ating the threat and they
don't want to be stopped and therefore
all the talk about ceasefires is
something that they see as something
that could threaten the
forces on ground Sami there are reports
that Qatar is trying to mediate for a
possible release of some of the hostages
what can you tell us about
that yeah well the reports are uh we
have different kinds of reports we have
also reports coming out of Qatar we have
reports coming out of Egypt uh also the
Egyptians have some proposals According
to some reports we're talking about the
release of 50 and other reports talks
about the release of 12 hostages half of
them American uh and and we're talking
about a a ceasefire of 72 hours but I
can tell you that the Israeli military
and the Israeli government
they're not interested in a ceas fire
and they've made it very clear in
statements this evening uh the ID of
spokesperson said that they're not
interested netan said that there is no
ceas fire uh so at this point of time
it's difficult to see that this is
actually going to
happen journalist Sammy so with the
latest from Jerusalem tonight Sammy is
always thank
you